# What I've learned about health in 2023

THIS ARTICLE IS STILL A DRAFT.

Foreword: This is not an article about pseudo-scientific yoga and 
homeopathy but I am also not a hyper neoliberal that has no time for 
anything without a million peer reviews. Yoga is great.

Now, the learnings in this article come mostly from two audio books I have 
enjoyed this year. The first was "The Future of Nutrition" by Dr T R 
Campbell and the second was "Lifespan" by [insert the dudes name here]. 
Essentially the take away from both of these books is that moderate stress 
in the form of hunger, exercise or a cold shower is good for your body.

A while ago I read "The Clever Guts Diet" and in this book [insert the other 
dudes name here] mentions that fasting gives space for healthy bacteria 
that feed on gut mucus to thrive. In exchange for your lovely gut mucus 
this bacteria releases anti-inflamatary chemicals into your blood stream, 
symbiosis! In "Lifespan" Dr thingymagigedy boils down aging to a series of 
illnesses across the body, one of which is the build up of inflamation. Dr 
thingymagigedy also mentions that stress on the body triggers activation 
of certain genes that repair DNA and cells. So according to some pretty 
well-respected science literature there are at least two reasons that 
fasting is good for you. A clear winner for health in my eyes.

But on this note of healthy stress triggers, what else do we find? Well as 
previously mentioned cold showers are a healthy stress-inducer to the skin 
that also triggers the activation of repair proteins. And exercise is a 
healthy stress-inducer to the musclular-skeletal system, also triggering 
repair proteins to get to work.

So then on another note, we can look at nutrition. If inflamation is bad, 
are there foods that cause inflamation? Good question you enthusiastic 
reader and the answer is yes. Meat. Meat contributes to inflamation but 
what's also interesting is that animal protein as a whole seems to do the 
opposite that healthy stress does to the body, it actually inhibits 
proteins that repair DNA and cells, contributing to faster aging. 

Other than meat, oily and heavily-processed foods also cause inflamation. 
So taking a step back and looking at the widescreen view of food and 
health we can see that eating less-often, less-processed and 
less-animal-based is the generally accepted "healthiest" diet. 

There's also another interesting point on food which is that eating less 
is good for you. Shock I know but wait. Apparently, reducing your calorie 
intake to 75% of recommended adult amounts can boost your lifespan and 
reduce the incidence of cancer, heart disease, altzheimers and more. 
What's more is that in "The Future of Nutrition" we hear that a whole-food 
plant-based diet (WFPB) gives the body the same nutritional 
value as a processed, animal-protein diet with less calories consumed. 
Another big win for plant-based eating. Apparently the reason for this is 
that the combination of nutrients in WFPB foods allows for better 
absorbtion in the body.   

Finally a really cool point on nutrition, there are proteins created 
inside plant cells when under stress that increase cellular repair in the 
plant like our own animal proteins can. When we eat these proteins in 
plants we can actually trigger cellular repair from them! It's as if our 
body evolved in harmony with plants (which they obviously did)!

So to summarise this spew of healthy goggledeegook:
- Fast
- Exercise
- Eat WFPB
- Have cold showers

Thanks for listening. Peace.
